# Docker PSL Ramp Up for .Net Developers

## Introduction
The purpose of this Ramp Up is to provide a set of challenges that will allow .Net Developers to create and deploy their own applications using Docker while following the best practices and leveraging the set of Docker Tools from Vistual Studio.


## Considerations
Even though the Ramp Up can be ran from a Windows or a Linux Machine, we'll focus on Linux Containers because they are widely used compared to Windows Containers and are probably what most projects in cloud environments use.

-----

### Stage 1: Getting Started

#### [Study Plan](study_plans/stage1_getting_started.md)
- Installing Docker
- Deploying a first Docker container
- Get to know the sources of information.
  
-----

### Stage 2: Learning Docker
#### [Study Plan](study_plans/stage2_learning_docker.md)
- What is a Docker container?
- What is the Docker Engine?
- Lifecycle of a Docker container.
- Exposing your application's port.
- Persisting Data with Containers.
#### Challenge
- Create a Dockerhub account.
- Create a public repository for a custom image.
- Create a Dockerfile for an Nginx image pre-packed with a HTML file saying "Hello World"
- Push the image to the repository with the version 1.0.0
- Run the image locally binded to the port 8080 of your machine
- Open the application from your browser.

-----

### Stage 3: Learning Docker for .Net
#### [Study Plan](study_plans/stage3_dotnet_docker.md)
- Docker images for .Net Core.
- Dockerfile examples for .Net Core.
#### Challenge
- Create a basic web application using the DotnetCore web framework. The application should have a simple controller that handles the /helloworld endpoint.
- Dockerize the application using the official Docker images provided by Microsoft. Make Dockerfile that receives the pre-built application artifact using COPY.
- Push the application to Dockerhub.
- Make another Dockerfile that copies the whole project and builds it inside Docker. Keep the image as small as possible using multi-stage Docker builds.
- Expose the application to your local machine using ports and access the endpoint from your browser.

-----

### Stage 4: Orchestration with Docker-Compose
#### [Study Plan](study_plans/stage4_docker_compose.md)
- Docker Networks
- Communicating two containers with links
- What is docker-compose?
- Docker-Compose vs Kubernetes.
#### Challenge
- Modify the previous application you created to include the logic to query a simple attribute from a MySQL or SQL Server database.
- We should have 3 application replicas and a single database.
- Create a docker-compose deployment that executes the application and database with a single `docker-compose up`.
- The database should be persitent, this means that you should be able to remove the container without loosing the data.

-----

### Stage 5: Learning Visual Studio Tools for Docker
#### Objectives
#### Study Plan
- Install Visual Studio Tools for Docker
- Autogenerate Dockerfile for application.
- Autogenerate Docker-Compose file for application.
#### Challenge
- Deploy an autogenerated docker-compose application for the application you've been working on.
- The application should be deployed and debuggued from theV Visual Studio IDE instead of a terminal.

-----

### Stage 6: Going Back to Advanced Topics
#### Study Plan
- Best practices
  - Build Optimization
  - Multi-stage builds
  - Security (rootless containers)
- Namespaces and CGroups
- Exploring the Docker filesystem (/var/docker/containers)
- Docker Network Overlay

-----
